Shorten & finalize vaccines text: introductory text (#1085)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/22.vaccines.md

Because vaccines fail to provide immediate prophylactic protection or treatment of ongoing infections, their application to most of these epidemics has been limited [@doi:10.3390/v10120680].
One of the more successful recent vaccine development programs was for H1N1 influenza.
This program benefited from the strong existing infrastructure for influenza vaccines along with the fact that regulatory agencies had determined that vaccines produced using egg- and cell-based platforms could be licensed under the regulations used for a strain change [@doi:10.1056/NEJMp2005630].
Although a monovalent H1N1 vaccine was not available before the pandemic peaked in the United States and Europe, it became available soon afterward as a stand-alone vaccine that was eventually incorporated into commercially available seasonal influenza vaccines [@doi:10.1056/NEJMp2005630].
Critiques of the production and distribution of the H1N1 vaccine have stressed the need for alternative development-and-manufacturing platforms that can be readily adapted to new pathogens. 

> Modular vaccine technologies are appealing because a vaccine that required only minor adjustments to fit a novel viral threat could enter trials quickly in response to a new pathogen of concern.

Reviewer: What is meant by "modular vaccine technology"?

Author: ```suggestion
Vaccine technologies that require only minor adjustments for novel viral threats are appealing because this modular approach would mean they could enter trials quickly in response to a new pathogen of concern.
```

> Rapidly adaptable vaccine technologies would facilitate the development of vaccines that could be adjusted to fit a novel viral threat at the minimum necessary degree and therefore could enter trials quickly in response to a new virus of concern.

Author: ```suggestion
Modular vaccine technologies are appealing because a vaccine that required only minor adjustments to fit a novel viral threat could enter trials quickly in response to a new pathogen of concern.
```

I agree, it's awkward! What about this instead?

Reverse vaccinology emphasizes a hypothesis-free approach to vaccine development [@doi:10.3389/fimmu.2019.02776].
This strategy was explored during development of a DNA vaccine against the Zika virus [@doi:10.1016/j.micinf.2018.03.001].
While once again the disease was controlled before the vaccine became available [@doi:10.1056/nejmp2005630], the response demonstrated the potential for modular technologies to facilitate a response to emerging viral threats [@doi:10.1016/j.micinf.2018.03.001].
The potential for such vaccines to benefit the field of oncology has encouraged vaccine developers to invest in next-generation approaches, which has spurred the diversification of vaccine development programs [@url:https://www.the-scientist.com/news-opinion/newer-vaccine-technologies-deployed-to-develop-covid-19-shot-67152; @doi:10.1038/nrg2432].
As a result, during the COVID-19 pandemic, these modular technologies have taken center stage in controlling a viral threat for the first time.

> The pandemic caused by Severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has highlighted a confluence of circumstances that positioned vaccine development as a key player in efforts to control the virus and mitigate its damage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2 has highlighted a confluence of circumstances that positioned vaccine development as a key player in efforts to control the virus and mitigate its damage.
```

Spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus has remained out of control in many parts of the world into 2022, especially with the emergence of novel variants exhibiting increased rates of transmission [@individual-pathogenesis].
While, for a variety of reasons, SARS-CoV-2 was not controlled as rapidly as the viruses underlying prior 21st century epidemics [@individual-pharmaceuticals], vaccine development technology had also progressed based on these and other prior viral threats to the point that a rapid international vaccine development response was possible. 

Vaccines bolster the immune response to the virus at the population level, thereby driving a lower rate of infection and likely significantly reducing fatalities even for a highly infectious virus like SARS-CoV-2.
The first critical step towards developing a vaccine against SARS-CoV-2 was characterizing the viral target, which happened extremely early in the COVID-19 outbreak with the sequencing and dissemination of the viral genome in early January 2020 [@url:http://www.who.int/csr/don/12-january-2020-novel-coronavirus-china/en] (Figure @fig:virus).

> This genomic information allowed for an early identification of the sequence of the spike (S) protein (Figure @fig:virus), which is the antigen and induces an immune response [@doi:10.1016/s0140-6736(20)32661-1; @doi:10.3389/fimmu.2020.576622].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This genomic information allowed for an early identification of the sequence of the spike (S) protein (Figure @fig:virus), which is the antigen and induces an immune response [@doi:10/fmq2; @doi:10.3389/fimmu.2020.576622].
```
Changing to short DOI

The abstracted visualization was made using BioRender [@url:https://biorender.com/] and the microscopy was conducted by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases [@url:https://www.niaid.nih.gov/news-events/novel-coronavirus-sarscov2-images].<!--To Do: Was a template used?-->
](images/SARS_CoV_2.png){#fig:virus secno=1}

### Cross-Platform Considerations in Vaccine Development

Certain design decisions are relevant to vaccine development across multiple platforms.
One applies to platforms that deliver the antigen, which in the case of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines is the Spike (S) protein.

> The prefusion conformation of the SARS-CoV-2 S protein is metastable [@doi:10.1016/j.lfs.2020.118056], and the release of energy during membrane fusion drives this process forward following destabilization [@doi:10.1146/annurev-virology-110615-042301; @doi:10.1038/nature17200].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The prefusion conformation of the SARS-CoV-2 S protein, structure before the virus fuses to the host cell membrane,  is metastable [@doi:10.1016/j.lfs.2020.118056], and the release of energy during membrane fusion drives this process forward following destabilization [@doi:10.1146/annurev-virology-110615-042301; @doi:10.1038/nature17200].
```
